---
layout: post
title: stardict
---
A Linux dictionary which I think is the best. Easy configuration, and support customized dictionary.

1. Refer to [stardict-3][1] and [www.huzheng.org/stardict][2], and get an overview of the package.
2. _#_ emerge -av app-text/stardict

    When finished installtion, it might remind:

    ```
* Note: festival text to speech (TTS) plugin is not built. To use festival
* TTS plugin, please, emerge festival and enable "Use TTS program." at:
* "Preferences -> Dictionary -> Sound" and fill in "Commandline" with:
* "echo %s | festival --tts"
* 
* You will now need to install stardict dictionary files. If
* you have not, execute the below to get a list of dictionaries:
* 
*   emerge -s stardict-
    ```

    Overlook this information. Since we will install real people sound. Don't need the TTL simulation one.

    *stardict* depends on *gnome-doc-utils* package and might fail with error:

    > xsltApplyStylesheet: saving to C/db-xref.xsldoc may not be possible

    This error might be solved by:
        1. MAKEOPTS="-j1" emerge -av app-text/stardict
	2. First run *python-updater*; then emerge -av app-text/stardict

    By default, the installer does not include any dictionaries for copyright issue. So we need to install dictionaries and real people sound.

3. The author supplies a complete set of dictionaries through *Baidu Pan* which includes many unnecessary ones supports for French, Russia etc.

    So Google and get dictionaries you desire. This is the list of my current ones:

    >WyabdcRealPeopleTTS.tar.bz2
    
    >stardic-etymonline-ee-2.4.2.zip

    >stardict-21shijishuangxiangcidian-2.4.2.zip

    >stardict-langdao-ec-gb-2.4.2.zip

    >stardict-oxford-gb-formated-2.4.2.zip

    The first one is the real people pronouncation.
4. For each dictionary:

    >_#_ unzip lv stardic*.zip, to list the zip contents.
    
    >_#_ for filename in /media/Misc/Crack/stardict/stardic*.zip; do unzip $filename -d /usr/share/stardict/dic; done
5. Install the real people sound:

    >_#_ tar xjvf WyabdcRealPeopleTTS.tar.bz2 -C /usr/share

    The destination directory could also be */home/zachary/.local/share*.

    The official site offer another sound package *OtdRealPeopleTTS* as well, which is much bigger in size. Hence, abandon this one.

    You might find the default dictionary and real people sound location is wierd. You can move it somewhere through the software configuration.
6. Set the fonts to `tahoma` otherwise the sound symbols would not display correctly or naturally.

[1]:https://code.google.com/p/stardict-3/
[2]:http://www.huzheng.org/stardict/
