---
layout: post
title: Font
---

# Font

1. Applications use fonts by font systems.
2. Font systems includes XLFD and XFT (requires Fontconfig).

   Two different font systems are used by X11: the older or core X Logical Font Description, XLFD, and the newer X FreeType, XFT, systems. XLFD was originally designed for bitmap fonts and support for scalable fonts (Type1, TrueType and OpenType) was added later. XLFD does not support anti‑aliasing and sub‑pixel rasterization. Xft uses the FreeType and Fontconfig libraries and is more suitable when the smooth appearance of fonts is desired. 
3. Application decides to use which font system. Most modern applications use XFT.

   Only some ancient ones use XLFD (I have not found one yet). Emacs supports both XLFD and XFT (try M-x: describe-font).
4. To see a list of known XFT/Fontconfig fonts:

   ```
   $ fc-list : file
   ```

   1. See man fc-list for more output formats.
   2. Fontconfig search *recursively* through font config.
5. XLFD font name is a bit weird, like:

   >-misc-fixed-medium-r-semicondensed--13-120-75-75-c-60-iso8859-1

   The name contains fourteen elements, with each element field preceded by a hyphen. Not all elements are required to be present in a font name.

   1. Two nearly indispensible utilities for working with XLFD names are *xfontsel*, and *xlsfonts*. Xfontsel uses dropdown menus for selecting parts of a font name and previews the font selected. Xlsfonts can list fonts by name, with selectable degrees of detail, and can show how wildcards and aliases will be interpreted by the XLFD system.
   2. Alternatively, for an XLFD font to be available to the X server, the directory containing the font file must be on the user's Font Path. You can check your current font path with *xset*.

5. X11's known Font Path:

   ```
   $ grep /fonts /var/log/Xorg.0.log
   or
   $ xset q
   ```

   1. Xorg scans font pathes on startup. Each font directory MUST contain a file named *fonts.dir* (depends on *fonts.scale*) that serves as an index connecting a font's XLFD name to the file containing the font. Otherwise, it would be overlooked.

      To create a *fonts.dir* (and *fonts.scale*) file, two programs are required, *mkfontscale* and *mkfontdir*.
   2. By default, Xorg searches font pathes through a variable "FontPath" in Section "Files" of Xorg configuration (*/etc/X11/xorg.conf* or */etc/X11/xorg.conf.d*).

      Provide full directory path in "FontPath".

6. XLFD, Fontconfig, Font Path.
   1. By default, */usr/share/fonts* is shared among of them.
   2. Almost all modern applications use Fontconfig.

# Fontconfig

Fontconfig is a library designed to provide system-wide font configuration, customization and application access. On Unix-like sytems, it is the main tool to manage fonts.

1. Read [fonts-conf](http://freedesktop.org/software/fontconfig/fontconfig-user.html); [Jin Buguo](http://www.jinbuguo.com).
2. Everything starts with */etc/fonts/fonts.conf*.
3. [XDG Base Directory Specification](https://standards.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html)

   This specification defines where these files should be looked for by defining one or more base directories relative to which files should be located. You can find out where is the default value for *XDG_DATA_HOME*, *XDG_CONFIG_HOME*, etc.

   BTW, different from *XDG base directory*, [xdg-user-dirs](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/xdg-user-dirs/) refers to Desktop, Documents, Downloads, Pictures, Templates etc.
4. Try *fc-list*, *fc-query*, *fc-match* etc. commands.
5. Manually copied fonts are placed under */opt/fonts/*, while fonts installed by package manager are placed under */usr/share/fonts/*.

## Per-user installation

Get fonts like `*.ttf` and `*.otf`:

```
MTEXTRA.TTF   fonts.dir    msyhbd.ttc   simhei.ttf  symbol.ttf    webdings.ttf
WINGDNG2.TTF  fonts.scale  msyhl.ttc    simkai.ttf  tahoma.ttf    wingding.ttf
WINGDNG3.TTF  msyh.ttc     simfang.ttf  simsun.ttc  tahomabd.ttf
```

Commands:

```bash
$ mkdir -p ~/.local/share/fonts/winfonts
$ cd ~/.local/share/fonts/winfonts
$ cp /path/to/font-files ./
$ fc-cache -fv ./
$ mkfontscale ./ && mkfontdir ./ && xset fp rehash (opt)
```

1. The last but secnd step is only required for manually *copied* fonts.

   Package manager (i.e. *emerge*) takes care of it automatically.
2. The last step are for very ancient applications (i.e. GTK+1, xfontsel) using XLFD. *mkfontscale* and *mkfontdir* requires full directory path.

   *xset fp rehash* makes new fonts available to applications.

## System-wide installation

Install system-wide fonts are similar except that the fonts directories are different like */usr/share/fonts/* or */opt/fonts/*.

```bash
# mkdir /opt/fonts/winfonts
# chmod 755 /opt/fonts/winfonts
# cd /opt/fonts/winfonts
# cp /path/to/font-files ./
# chmod -R 644 ./*
# fc-cache -fv ./*
# mkfontscale ./ && mkfontdir ./ (opt)
```

# Xorg "FontPath" (opt)

Most of time, Fontconfig works out of box without any further configuration. To support ancient applications use XLFD, we might need to tune "FontPath".

For Xorg to load fonts directly (as opposed to the use of a font server - XFT), the directory for your newly added font must be added with a "FontPath" entry. This entry is located in the "Files" section of Xorg configuration file. An official example is */usr/share/doc/xorg-server-1.18.4/xorg.conf.example.bz2*.

Create */etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/15-font-path.conf*:

```
Section "Files"
# Multiple FontPath entries are allowed (which are concatenated together),
# as well as specifying multiple comma-separated entries in one FontPath
# command (or a combination of both methods).
# The default path is shown here.
#    FontPath	/usr/share/fonts/misc/,/usr/share/fonts/TTF/,/usr/share/fonts/OTF/,/usr/share/fonts/Type1/,/usr/share/fonts/100dpi/,/usr/share/fonts/75dpi/

    FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/misc"
    FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/100dpi,/usr/share/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/util"
    FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/encodings"
    ...
    FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/winfonts"
EndSection
```

1. "FontPath" entry can be a single font path or multiple comma-separated font paths (or a combination of both). Font paths must be quoted.
2. The default pathes (i.e. 100dpi, 75dpi etc.) are always scanned.
3. Pathes lack *fonts.scale* (*mkfontscale*) and *fonts.dir* (*mkfontdir*) are neglected.

## Per-user configuration

Settings Font Path under */etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/* are system-wide effective. For per-user setting, add

```
xset +fp /usr/share/fonts/dejavu/           # Prepend a custom font path to Xorg's list of known font paths
```

to *~/.xinitrc*. To remove a Font Path, use *-fp* instead. Alternatively, execute it on command line.

## Rehash without logout

```bash
# xsetq fp rehash
```

# Sphere - infinality

*infinality* USE can be enabled globally in */etc/portage/make.conf*.

```bash
# echo "media-libs/freetype adobe-cff infinality" > /etc/portage/package.use/freetype
# emerge -av media-libs/freetype
# eselect fontconfig list
# eselect fontconfig enable 52-infinality.conf
```

*fontconfig-infinality* will draw in its own settings (*/etc/fonts/infinality*) which will interfere with the other fontconfig configuration. It's recommended to disable most of Fontconfig options while keeping *52-infinality.conf*. Specially, configurations related to specific fonts can be kept like *62-croscore-\**.conf* and *57-dejavu-\*.conf*.

You will find *fontconfig* (*/etc/fonts/*) and *infinality* (*/etc/fonts/infinality/*) has the nearly the same directory architecture. The *conf.d* sub-directory stores the selected symlinks, while *conf.avail* (or *conf.src*) stores all existing configurations. We use *eselect* which chooses and creates symbolic links under *conf.d* sub-directory.

Optionally, refer to reference number 3, set `embeddedbitmap` in `/etc/fonts/infinality/infinality.conf` to `true`.

## *infinality* symlinks

```bash
# eselect lcdfilter list
# eselect lcdfilter set 14, set to *windows-7*
# eselect infinality list
# eselect infinality set to *win7*
```

Make sure *lcdfilter* and *infinality* choose the same category.

# Practice

1. Use [Jin Buguo Linux字体美化实战(Fontconfig配置)](http://www.jinbuguo.com/gui/linux_fontconfig.html).
   1. All fonts in this practice are manually copied.
   2. Remove Korean fonts parts.
   3. Fonts under */opt/fonts/core* are fine-tuned.
   5. By default, */usr/share/fonts* is shared among XLFD, XFT and X11 Font Path. It's excluded from this schema.
2. */opt/fonts/ext* are complementary to */opt/fonts/core*.
   1. Put *wps-office* formula fonts under */opt/fonts/ext/wps-office*.
   2. Include */opt/fonts/ext* in *fonts.conf*.
3. Ancient applications using XLFD refer to X11 Font Path directly.
   1. Make sure *fonts.scale* (by *mkfontscale) and *fonts.dir* (by *mkfontdir*) exist under each directory of font directory.
   2. Paths under */opt/fonts/* can be appended to Font Path if you'd like.

# Reference:

1. [Gentoo Linux on T43 (7) 中文字体](http://ted.is-programmer.com/categories/1547/posts)
2. [字体配置local.conf详解[带Win效果和AA效果]](https://www.freebsdchina.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=34824&start=0&postdays=0&postorder=asc&highlight=)
3. [gentoo 下字体美化该如何设置](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/gentoo-china/gzW8mg9OIhg)
4. [在Gentoo上配置Infinality](https://gist.github.com/kidlj/f30e82c2c6f064990596)
5. [Gentoo Fontconfig](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Fontconfig).
