---
layout: post
title: Git tips
---

# Installation

1. Install

    ```bash
    # emerge -av dev-vcs/git
    ```

# config

`config --global` applies to every repository of current user account.

1. $ touch ~/.config/git/config

    On my Gentoo Xfce4, `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME` is not set automatically. Without touching this file manually, it would defaults to `~/.gitconfig` instead.
2. $ git config --global user.name "Jim Gray"

    NOT your Github account name. Tell Git your name so your commits will be properly labeled. It can be any string that represents you.
3. $ git config --global user.email "YOUR EMAIL"

    Tell Git the email address that will be associated with your Git commits. The email you specify should be the same one found in your email settings. To keep your email address hidden, see [Keeping your email address private](https://help.github.com/articles/keeping-your-email-address-private/).
4. $ git config --global core.editor nano

    You can configure the default text editor that will be used when Git needs you to type in a message (without `-m` opton on push). If not configured, Git uses your system’s default editor, which is generally Vim / Emacs / Nano.
5. $ git config --global credential.helper 'cache --timeout=3600'

    If you're [cloning GitHub repositories using HTTPS](https://help.github.com/articles/which-remote-url-should-i-use), you can use a *credential helper* to tell Git to remember your GitHub username and password for a while every time it talks to GitHub. By default, Git will cache your password for 15 minutes (900 seconds). Here, we set it to 1 hour (3600 seconds).
6. For EOL conversion, refer to [git line ending conversion](/2014/09/08/git-line-ending-conversion/).
7. $ git config --global -l

    Check current config.
8. For a single user system, you'd best use `--system` instead of `--global`.
# .gitignore

1. If I only want to push a single file of a directory.

    ```
    # put the two lines into *.gitignore* of the *git* top directory.
    /my-dir/**
    !/my-dir/my-file
    ```

    Pay attention to the consecutive stars `**`. Without two stars, *git* will ignore everything under *my-dir* (included), though the later line tells it not to ignore *my-file*. *git* do this to improve performance. Details refer to `man gitignore`.

    Another way to solve this issue is creating a new *.gitignore* under *my-dir*:

    ```
    # put the three lines into *my-dir/.gitignore*:
    *
    !.gitignore
    !my-file
    ```

    The newly created *.gitignore* has higher priority than those *.gitignore* files in parent directories.
2. *~/.config/ignore*

    This is the global *ignore* list that applys to all Git repositories for current user.

    For example, on my Gentoo:

    ```
    *~
    .#*
    \#*\#
    ```

    The first line ignores Linux file auto-backup.

    The later two lines are for Emacs eidtor's backup.
3. For language-specific ignorance, refer to [A collection of useful .gitignore templates](https://github.com/github/gitignore).
