---
layout: post
title: IRC
---

> SASL is a method that simplify identification to NickServ as the first step after connecting to IRC servers, before anything else happens. To connect to freenode using Tor, SASL is required. In this post, I will take Weechat and Freenode for example.

# ABCs

1. Conncet through WebChat on browser.

   Just fill in nick and channel names on [freenode webchat](https://webchat.freenode.net). HTTPS (ssl) establish a secure connection IRC server compared to HTTP.

   By Webchat, we cannot require other services.
2. Connect through Clients (Weechat Irssi etc.).
3. Connect in the clear.

   Similar to Webchat, the clear way connects directly without proxy or nick reservation (by NickServ).

   Should provide IRC hostname (*chat.freenode.net*) and port (7000) which are implicit in Webchat (*webchat.freenode.net* and 80).

   After connection, join a channel to talk.
4. Nickserv - register/identify

   Before joining channels, we can register the chosen nick on IRC server. Reconnect to identify ourself as the nick.
5. SASL authentication

   Automatic identification on connection by SASL. Weechat SASL supports different authentication mechanisms:

   - plain: plain text file password (default)
   - ecdsa-nist256p-challenge: challenge with public/private key
   - external: self-signed SSL certificate
   - ...
6. Connect with proxy (i.e. Tor).
7. [BNC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bounce_%28network%29) (i.e. ZNC), or Weechat relay protocol.

   Weechat relay supports IRC protocol as well (to be compatibile with other IRC clients).

# Weechat setting

```bash
jim@laptop ~ $ weechat
```

> *iset* plugin is recommended for Weechat, which makes server settings far easier.

1. /set irc.network.send\_unknown_commands on (opt)

   Some commands (i.e. */ns*) are specific to IRC servers which cannot be recoginized by IRC client. This setting enables such commands.
2. /set irc.look.part\_closes_buffer on

   This will close the *buffer* (or called *tab*) immediately when parting a channel.
3. /set irc.look.server_buffer independent (opt)

   By default, server buffers are merged with WeeChat *core* buffer. To switch between *core* buffer and server buffers, you can use `Ctrl+x`.
4. /set ctcp.irc.{version, userinfo, time, finger, clientinfo, ping} ""

   Set all these variables to empty preventing from others querying IRC client information.

# Server setting

1. /server add freenode chat.freenode.net/7000

   Check *server_default* section of *~.weechat/irc.conf*. Common default server options can be set here (i.e. *irc.server_default.ssl*).
2. /set irc.server.freenode.ssl on

   This is strongly recommended.
3. /set irc.server.freenode.nicks "whoami"

   If you don't set default nicks, Weechat will take system username as the default nick.
4. /set irc.server.freenode.username "whoami"
5. /set irc.server.freenode.realname "whoami"
6. /set irc.server.freenode.autoconnect on (opt)
7. /set irc.server.freenode.command "/mode whoami +w" (opt)

   *wallops* user mode receives operator announcements.
8. /set irc.server.freenode.autojoin "\#gentoo" (opt)
   1. You are not always connecting to "\#gentoo" channel. Only connect on demand!
   2. We will setup SASL identification to NickServ which requires authentication to *freenode* server before joining. If *autojoin* is turned on for a channel, Weechat might join that channel before authentication finished.
9. /connect freenode

# NickServ

*NickServ* allows users to register nicks on IRC servers. Different IRC servers support different set of NickServ commands. We can check by `/msg nickserv help` before executing following commands.

Make sure you are connected to IRC server with your desired nick (change by */nick new-nick*). Don't execute the following commands in a channel tab, otherwise sensitive information (i.e. password) might be disposed and sniffed. Character case can be ignored.

Take Freenode for example:

1. /msg NickServ REGISTER password youremail@example.com

   In Weechat, the *pasword youremail@example.com* part will be displayed as asterisks. But don't worry as long as you put a space between *password* and *youremail@example.com*.

   After this command, Weechat will show *password* and *youremail@example.com* as plain text. IRC server uses the current nick (*whoami*) as the account name. So *whoami* is both the nick and account name registered on *freenode*. This special nick is called *primary nick*.

   In a while, you will receive an email, from which you should copy the verification command to complete the registration process:
2. /msg NickServ VERIFY REGISTER whoami temporary-code

   This *temporary-code* is only for account registration confirm.

   Now, account name *whoami* has just one nick *whoami* associated on Freenode server, no one else can use nick *whoami* unless the correct *password* is identified (talked later on).

   OFTC server does need this extra confirmation step.
3. /msg NickServ SET HIDEMAIL ON

   To keep your email address private, rather than displaying it publicly, mark it as hidden.

   For OFTC, it */msg nickserv set private on*.
4. Group more nicks to *whoami* account.

   A Freenode account can reserve multiple nicks.

   First switch to a new nick and then *group* it to our account (as long as that nick is not reserved by others). Grouping nicks in this way gives you the benefit of having all your nicks covered by the same *cloak* (*unaffiliated cloak* below), should you choose to wear a cloak.

    ```
    /nick whoami_, switch to nick 'whoami_'
    
    /ns group, add whoami to account 
    or
    /msg NickServ GROUP
    ```
    
    Repeat the two commands for other nicks you desire. When connecting to IRC server, the nick chosen is based on *irc.server.freenode.nicks*.
5. `/reconnect freenode`

   It will prompt like *whoami is registered... you must identify yourself...*. To identify yourself as nick *whoami*, run `/msg NickServ identify whoami password`.

# Identification

## Without SASL

If you don't configure SASL, then you have two choices:

1. Manual identification after connection to server.

   ```
   /reconnect freenode
   /msg NickServ identify whoami password
   ```

2. freenode.command

   ```
   /set irc.server.freenode.command "/msg NickServ identify whoami password"
   ```

   To run a command **after connection** to server automatically, for example to authenticate with NickServ service.

## SASL plain scheme

OFTC disallow this scheme.

1. /set irc.server.freenode.sasl_mechanism plain (default)
2. /set irc.server.freenode.sasl_username "whoami"

   The username can be any one of your grouped nicks. But usually the primary nick (namely the account name) is used.
2. /secure set freenode password

   Password will be recorded in *~/.weechat/sec.conf*.
3. /set irc.server.freenode.sasl_password "${sec.data.freenode}"

   Tell *weechat* where to get the password.
4. /set irc.server.freenode.sasl_fail disconnect

   If SASL auth fail, disconnect.
5. /reconnect freenode

## SASL external sheme

1. /set irc.server.freenode.sasl_mechanism external

   As long as *sasl_mechanism* is changed to *external*, *sasl_username* and *sasl_password* setting won't take effect.
2. /set irc.server.freenode.ssl on
3. /set irc.server.freenode.ssl_verify on (default)
4. /set irc.server.freenode.ssl_cert "%h/ssl/freenode.pem"

We should generate a self-signed X509 certificate before reconnection.

### OpenSSL

OpenSSL is a cryptography toolkit implementing the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL v2/v3) and Transport Layer Security (TLS v1) network protocols and related cryptography standards required by them. So actually any (except those use *libressl*) packages using SSL require OpenSSL support, OpenSSH and Firefox (HTTPS) included.

The *openssl* program is a command line tool for using the various cryptography functions of OpenSSL's crypto library from the shell.

```
jim@laptop ~ $ openssl req -newkey rsa:4096 -nodes -keyout freenode.pem -sha256 -x509 -days 365 -out freenode.pem -subj "/C=ZH/ST=Hongkong/L=Kowloon/O=UST/OU=CS/CN=freenode.net"
jim@laptop ~ $ mkdir -p ~/.weechat/ssl
jim@laptop ~ $ mv freenode.pem ~/.weechat/ssl/
```

1. req: certificate request and certificate generating utility.
2. nodes: no DES encryption. The RSA private key won't be encrypted by DES.
3. keyout: the private key file.
4. sha256: the digest to sign certificate.
5. out: the certificate file.

   The *keyout* and *out* specify the same output file name, which means private key and certificate will be merged automatically.
6. subj: subject field (i.e. country name). If not provided on command line, *openssl* will prompt for user input.

### Nick and certificate association

We have only generated self-signed certificate locally. To achieve certificate authentication, we should add the fingerprint to NickServ on freenode server

```
/msg nickserv cert add [fingerprint]
```

By default, SHA1 (others like SHA256, MD5, MD2, MDC2 etc.) fingerprint is used (OFTC only allow SHA1). We can manually append the *fingerprint*. To check the certificate information:

```bash
jim@laptop ~ $ man x509
jim@laptop ~ $ openssl x509 -noout -text -fingerprint -sha256 -in freenode.pem
```

Finally reconnect to identify nick by SASL external. You can see a line:

>gnutls: sending one certificate

during connection. Run */whois nick* to see:

>has client certificate fingerprint: your fingerprint here

# unaffilicated cloak

1. *Unaffiliated cloak* is to hide your IP from IRC command like *whois*.
2. To obtain a cloak, just join *\#freenode* channel, ask for one.

   When channel staff notices your request, you *might* get cloaked. Unaffiliated cloak applies to all channels on Freenode server.
3. To get a cloak on OFTC is much easier:

   ```
   /msg nickserv SET CLOAK ON
   ```

# proxy - Tor

Suppose you would like to connect to IRC server by proxy, how to set?

1. Add proxy

   ```
   /proxy add tor socks5 127.0.0.1 9050
   ```

   This will tell Weechat that a proxy named 'tor' is added.
2. Server copy

   Suppose we find Tor proxy is troublesome someday, updates to current server must be restored. To ease configuration, issue the following command:

   ```
   /server copy freenode freenode-tor
   ```

   Update *freenode-tor* configuration instead.
2. Enable proxy for IRC server

   ```
   /set irc.server.freenode-tor.proxy tor
   ```

3. However Freenode does not allow Tor connection to *chat.freenode.net*.

   The server hostname should be changed to hidden url *freenodeok2gncmy.onion* while keeping the original port.

   ```
   /set irc.server.freenode-tor.addresses freenodeok2gncmy.onion/6697
   ```

4. Onion certificate.

   Cannot wait to reconnect? Yeah, me too. The server certificate cannot be verified since onion url is not certified by almost all CAs.

   >gnutls: the hostname in the certificate does NOT match "freenodeok2gncmy.onion"

   Currently, only a few onion url is signed by [digicert](https://www.digicert.com).

   The solution is maully trust fetched certificates in which though the hostname is *freenode.net* instead of *freenodeok2gncmy.onion*.

   When connected to *chat.freenode.net*, Weechat usually receive three certificates with their SHA-1 fingerprints listed. Collect those fingerprints and assign to:

   ```
   /set irc.server.freenode-tor.ssl_fingerprint fp1,fp2,fp3,...
   ```

   Alternatively we can turn off certificate verification:

   ```
   /set irc.server.freenode-tor.ssl_verify off
   ```

   If IRC client supports [**key pinning**](https://freenode.net/kb/answer/chat), we can choose to trust freenode's public key fingerprint instead certificate's fingerprint which benefits us in that the former keep consistent while the later varies in accord with the real freenode server you connect to. Unfortunately, Weechat does not.
   
   If Weechat throws errors like:

   >gnutls: peer's certificate is NOT trusted

   >gnutls: peer's certificate issuer is unknown

   Please check whether `weechat.network.gnutls_ca_file` exist or not.

   Recently, freenode Tor servers do not report certificate fingerprint anymore. We can manually print fingerprint by:

   ```bash
   ~ # torify gnutls-cli --tofu freenodeok2gncmy.onion:6697  --print-cert | openssl x509 -noout [-text] -fingerprint -sha256 -in /dev/stdin
   ```

# [Relay protocol](https://latest.glowing-bear.org/)

Weechat relay protocol is an extension to IRC relay (also known as *IRC proxy*) with full control over remote Weechant relay instance.

This section demonstrates the following:

1. Run Weechat relay instance on remote CentOS 6;
2. [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/);
3. [Glowing-bear](https://latest.glowing-bear.org/) front-end;
4. Web server to [proxy Weechat relay](https://github.com/glowing-bear/glowing-bear/wiki/Proxying-WeeChat-relay-with-a-web-server) (optional).

## What's IRC *relay* for?

IRC protocol does not preserve offline messages. To overcome that deficit, people think of Bounced Network Connection (BNC), one of which is [ZNC](http://wiki.znc.in/ZNC). Another choice is Weechat's built-in Weechat relay feature. Regardless of ZNC or Weechat relay, they usually run on remote VPS.

ZNC allows multiple IRC clients connections that may be different end users, while Weechat relay is always ownded by whom created it.

Weechat relay supports both standard IRC protocol relay and specific Weechat protocol relay. Specific Weechat relay is exclusive to Weechat client and of course enable you full control.

If you add a standard IRC protocol relay in Weechat, you can connect to it with any IRC client like HexChat, Irssi etc. Nevertheless, a specific Weechat protocol relay only allows Weechat front-end connection like *glowing-bear* or [Weechat android](https://github.com/ubergeek42/weechat-android).

The reason I choose *glowing-bear* comes from it supporting both mobile App and web browser.

## Scheme

1. SSL (encryption) or not;

   Yes.
2. Self-signed certificate VS Let's Encrypt Certificate;

   LE certficiate. Self-signed certificate is not trusted by browsers nor Glowing-bear app.
3. Connect directly to relay VS use intermeddiate web server proxy.

   Web proxy is better since we can re-use existing certificate.

   1. Glowing bear (SSL) -> web server proxy (plaintext) -> relay.
   2. Glowing bear (SSL) -> relay

## Weechat relay instance

1. Install Weechat

   ```bash
   ~ # yum install weechat
   ```

   Lastest Weechat on CentOS6 is 0.4.3 (fairly ancient version). Fortunately, it meets *glowing-bear*'s lower version bound - 0.4.2.
2. Launch and configure Weechat on VPS
   1. No proxy needed;
   2. Recommend SASL *external* scheme.
3. Add relay

   ```
   /relay add ipv4.weechat 9000 (plain text)
   /relay add ipv4.ssl.weechat 9001 (encryption)
   /set relay.network.bind_address "127.0.0.1" (web proxy)
   /set relay.network.password MY-RELAY-PASSWORD
   ```

   1. Add specific Weechat protocol relay;
   2. The first one without *ssl* option transmit in plaintext between Weechat front-end and Weechat relay. It's very dangerous if middle man sniffs the relay password, resulting in his full access to the relay.
   3. *ssl* requires certificate (self-signed or Let's Encrypt) support. However, self-signed certificate is not supported by Glowing-bear.

## Let's Encrypt

Let's Encrypt is a free, automated, and open Certificate Authority. We need to acquire a publicly authorized certificate to encrypt verify Weechat identity and Weechat relay communication.

### Domain setup

Domain setup is *optional* (NOT sure yet) for Weechat relay but recommended by Let's Encrypt for future utilization like serving as personal website certificate, proxying Weechat relay etc.

For example add a DNS A recourd pointing *irc.example.com* to remote relay server IP.

### SSL Certificate

```bash
~ # certbot certonly --webroot -w /usr/share/nginx/html -d irc.example.com --dry-run
~ # certbot certonly --standalone -d irc.example.com --dry-run
```

You may also *expand* the new domain to existing certficiate. Refer to [Let's Encrypt Certificate](/2017/10/10/le-certificate.md).

## Direct connection

Connects to Weechat relay directly without any intermeddiate parties.

### Let Weechat relay know the Certificate

```bash
~ # cat /etc/letsencrypt/live/relay.example.com/{privkey,fullchain}.pem > relay.pem
~ $ mkdir -p ~/.weechat/ssl
~ # mv relay.pem /home/username/.weechat/ssl/
```

Then in Weechat, just do:

```
/relay add ipv4.ssl.weechat 9001
/set relay.network.password MY-RELAY-PASSWORD
/set relay.network.ssl_cert_key ~/.weechat/ssl/relay.pem
/relay sslcertkey
```

Each time Let's Encrypt certificate is renewed, repeat *relay sslcertkey*.

## Web proxy

Web server (i.e. Nginx) proxifies Weechat relay which let Weechat relay share certificate with web server.

1. Nginx HTTPS sample

   ```
   server {
       listen 80;
       ...
       # enforce https
       return 301 https://$server_name$request_uri;
   }

   server  {
       ...
       ssl_certificate "/etc/letsencrypt/live/irc.example.com/fullchain.pem";
       ssl_certificate_key "/etc/letsencrypt/live/irc.example.com/privkey.pem";
       ....
   ```

2. Add nginx proxy

   ```
   # Set connection header based on upgrade header
   map $http_upgrade $connection_upgrade {
       default upgrade;
       '' close;
   }

   # Protect from brute force attack
   limit_req_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=weechat:10m rate=5r/m;

   server {
       listen 80;
       server_name irc.example.com;

       return 301 https://$server_name$request_uri;

   }

   server {
       listen 443 ssl http2;
       server_name cloud.example.com;

       ssl_certificate "/etc/letsencrypt/live/irc.example.com/fullchain.pem";
       ssl_certificate_key "/etc/letsencrypt/live/irc.example.com/privkey.pem";
       ssl_session_cache shared:SSL:1m;
       ssl_session_timeout 10m;
       ssl_ciphers HIGH:!aNULL:!MD5;
       ssl_prefer_server_ciphers on;

       location /weechat {
           proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:3375/weechat;     # Change the port to your relay's
           proxy_http_version 1.1;
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;       # These two lines ensure that the
           proxy_set_header Connection "Upgrade";        # a WebSocket is used
           proxy_read_timeout 604800;                    # Prevent idle disconnects
           proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;      # Let WeeChat see the client's IP
           limit_req zone=weechat burst=1 nodelay;       # Brute force prevention
       }

   }
   ```

   *proxy_pass* accepts *http* instead of *https*. No TLS authentication between web server and Wechat relay required.
3. Relay

   ```
   /relay add ipv4.weechat 9000
   /set relay.network.bind_address "127.0.0.1"
   /set relay.network.password MY-RELAY-PASSWORD
   ```

4. Connect
   1. Use the relay **without** SSL option such as *ipv4.weechat* since encrytion is done between Glowing-bear and Nginx.
   2. Must ser *relay.network.bind_address* to *localhost* or *127.0.0.1*. Otherwise, the plaintext relay accept direct connection on the port.

      Another way is [drop](/2017/09/20/firewalld) incoming traffic to relay port on firewall.
   3. Speicify the port to web server's SSL port (i.e. 443) since we are now connecting to proxy instead of direct contact with Weechat relay.
   4. There is no need to do encryption between Nginx proxy and relay since it's internal traffic.