---
layout: post
title: sed awk
---
These tools do a big favor when editing streams. Both programs use regular expressions for selecting and processing text.

For instance, a configuration file contains lots of comment lines starting with `#` and blank lines. When applying the configuration to systems, you might need to remove those lines for a clean and tidy configuration file.

    sed '/^ *#/d' nginx_with_comments.conf | sed '/^$/d' > nginx.conf

Use `sed`(*stream editor*, take pipes as input) command to *delete* `d` specific pattern lines. The 1st part removes comment lines while the 2nd remove blank lines.

`awk`  considers each file as a set of records, which by default are the lines in the file. "awk" enables you to create a condition and action pair, and for each record that matches the condition, the action will fire. Most "awk" commands follow this pattern – you have a condition, followed by an action in curly braces.

    ls -al ~/ | awk '/zachary/{print $1, $9}'

This command will first file lines contain *zachary* and then print the 1st and 8th items/columns - to print permissions and filenames. **awk is really useful when dealing with columns**. You can use other conditions; for example, checking whether or not a certain field is above or below a given threshold (i.e. $5 > 2), or checking whether a record has a certain column.

    ls -al | awk '$9 ~/^\./ {gsub(/zachary/, "awkSub"); print;}'

`akw` check wheter the 9th item (filename) starts wity dot. Then use `gsub` (*global substitute*) to substitue every occurence of *zachary* with *awkSub*.

# awk VS sed

Both are tools that transform text. BUT `awk` can do more things besides just manipulating text. Its a programming language by itself with most of the things you learn in programming, like arrays, loops, if/else flow control etc You can "program" in `sed` as well, but you won't want to maintain the code written in it.

`sed` is a **stream editor**. It works with **streams of characters** on a **per-line** basis. It has a primitive programming language that includes goto-style loops and simple conditionals (in addition to pattern matching and address matching). There are essentially only two "variables": pattern space and hold space. Readability of scripts can be difficult. Mathematical operations are extraordinarily awkward at best.

`awk` is oriented toward **delimited fields** on a **per-line** basis. It has much more **robust programming** constructs including **if/else**, **while**, **do/while** and **for** (C-style and array iteration). There is complete support for variables and single-dimension associative arrays plus (IMO) kludgey multi-dimension arrays. Mathematical operations resemble those in C. It has printf and functions. The "K" in "AWK" stands for "*K*ernighan" as in "Kernighan and Ritchie" of the book "C Programming Language" fame (not to forget *A*ho and *W*einberger). One could conceivably write a detector of academic plagiarism using awk.

I would tend to use `sed` where there are patterns in the text. For example, you could replace all the negative numbers in some text that are in the form "minus-sign followed by a sequence of digits" (e.g. "-231.45") with the "accountant's brackets" form (e.g. "(231.45)") using this (which has room for improvement):

    echo "-123.456 -345.678" sed 's/-\([0-9.]\+\)/(\1)/g'

I would use `awk` when the text looks more like rows and columns or, as `awk` refers to them "records" and "fields" - matrix. Refer to the example above.

Use `sed` for very simple text parsing. Anything beyond that, `awk` is better. In fact, you can ditch `sed` altogether and just use `awk`. Since their functions overlap and `awk` can do more, just use `awk`. You will reduce your learning curve as well.

总之，sed能实现的awk也能实现；简单的模式匹配用awk；有矩阵行列特征用awk。
