---
layout: post
title: robocopy
---

Robust File Copy for Windows command `robocopy` can *mirror* or *incrementally backup* files/directories, with versitle parameters.

The basic usage of `robocopy` is like:

```
robocopy <source-dir> <dest-dir> [file [file] ...] [options]

# robocopy d:\work e:\back *.txt *.doc *.bmp *.tif /s
```

>Attention please: Windows does not differentiate letter case. Hence, `/s` and `/S` have the same effect.

By default, file/directory to copy can be wildcards like `*` (default to `*.*`; omitted usually). Read [Robocopy 指令範例參考 (MIR問題很多，小心使用)](http://basuya.blogspot.tw/2009/12/robocopy.html) or check `robocopy /?`.

`robocopy` will copy any name where the __Timestamp or file size differs__:

1. Timestamp refers to any of Creation Date, Last Modified Date or Last Access Date.
2. It does not care about whether the source or the dest is newer.
3. It does not count on any hash functions.
4. In order to avoid unnecessary copy, we should tune arguments accordingly.

The following is an example that mirrors a disk parittion: 

```
# /MIR = /E /PURGE
F:\>robocopy D:\ E:\ /MIR /XO

F:\>robocopy D:\ E:\ /MIR /XO /COPY:DAT /DCOPY:DAT [/MINAGE:1] /MAXLAD:7 /XA:SH /XD "System Volume Information" "$RECYCLE.BIN" /R:3 /W:10 /MT:16 /UNILOG+:F:\robocopy.log /TEE /Z
```

1. `/MIR` mirrors a directory tree, equivalent to `/E /PURGE`.
2. `/XO` skips older files from the source.
3. `/COPY:DATS` copies Data, Attributes, Timestamp and NTFS Security ACLs fo files.

   By default, Security info of NTFS is not copied. However, the system may deny this for security considerations.
4. `/DCOPY:DAT` copies Data, Atrributes and Timestamp of directories.

   By default, Timestamp is not copied.
5. `/MINAGE:n` and `/MAXAGE:n` exclude files according to their Last Modified Date.

   `MINAGE:1`  guarantees that files being updated today won't copied. On the contrary, MAXAGE skip files old enough.

   `n` can be the number of days or date in `YYYYMMDD` format. It should adapt to the bakcup *cron* job.
6. `/MINLAD:n` and `/MAXLAD:n` exclude files according to their Last Access Date.
7. `/XA:SH` excludes files with Hidden or System attributes.

   In return, we have `/IA:` to copy only files with the specified attributes.
8. `/XD <dir>` excludes specific directories.

   In return, we have `/XF` to exclude specific files.
9. `/R:3` retries 3 times on failed copies. By default, it is 1 million.

   `/W:10` wait for 10 seconds between retries.
1. `/MT:16` creats 16 concurrent threads to copy files.
2. `/UNILOG+:F:\robocopy.log` redirects log to file with UNICODE encoding.
3. `/Z` runs in *restartable* mode such that we can resume the transfer in case it is interrupted.

The Linux alternative of `robocopy` is `rsync`. Please check *fmt.pdf*.