---
layout: post
title: Theme
---

* TOC
{:toc}

# Scheme

1. [Zukitre](https://github.com/lassekongo83/zuki-themes/tree/3.20) for Xfwm4.

   Even don't install the *gtk-engines-murrine* dependency :). Remember copy *userChrome.css* to *~/.mozilla/firefox/user-profile/chrome/*.

   Only the Window Manager theme part is enabled. Xfce-kde2 is selected for GTK2/3 theme.
2. [papirus-icon-theme](https://github.com/PapirusDevelopmentTeam/papirus-icon-theme) for Icons. The advantage of *papirus-icon-theme* is supporting *hardcode-tray* support, especially for Thunar icons.

   Just copy Papirus and Papirus-Dark to *~/.local/share/icons/*. Remember to *gtk-update-icon-cache ~/.loca/share/icons/{Papirus,Papirus-Dark}*.
3. [Solarized](http://ethanschoonover.com/solarized) is a *palette* theme mainly for editor (Emacs/Vim) and [terminal emulator](http://www.wanglifeng.info/sysadmin/solarized-color-scheme.html) (Guake).

# Xfce

Theme are [divided](https://forum.xfce.org/viewtopic.php?id=8787) into [5 different themes](https://wiki.xfce.org/howto/install_new_themes):

1. GTK2/3 theme: Applications/Settings/Apperance/Style. Rendering GTK *toolkit* like buttons, textboxes, drawing canvas, etc - everything *within* the border and title bar of a window.
2. Window Manager theme (Xfwm4): Applications/Settings/Window Manager/Style. The borders, title bar, maximize/minimize buttons, etc.
3. Icon theme (Adwaita): Applications/Settings/Apperance/Icons.
4. Notification theme: Applications/Settings/Notifications. Notification popup.
5. Cursor theme:  Applications/Settings/Mouse and Touchpad/Theme.

   All of these components play a part in determining the *look* of Xfce Desktop as you see it on the screen.

   Check */usr/share/themes* and */usr/share/icons* for theme files.
6. Themes can be configured by command *gconftool-2* either.
7. (opt) Consistent look for GTK2 and GTK3.

   By default, *x11-themes/gtk-engines-xfce:0* (slot 0 for GTK2 themes) is installed. We emerge it explicitly to pull in GTK3 themes (slot 3).

   ```bash
   # emerge -avt x11-themes/gtk-engines-xfce
   ```

   Term *theme engine* refers to preliminary themes that mainly serve as dependencies of other themes. For example, many excel themes (i.e. Arc-theme and Greybird) depend on *gtk-engines-murrine*.
8. Rude GTK3

   >GTK3 updates always break existing themes. The developers just ignore themes compatibility!

   *>=x11-libs/gtk+-3.20* breaks existing Xfce GTK3 themes (i.e. Firefox mouseover fails to display, scroolbar disappers, Ctrl-o no borders etc.).

   Since many packages depend on 3.20, we have to either choose a compatible GTK3 theme (i.e. [Greybird](https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Xfce#Greybird_theme) require many dependencies) or remove GTK3 theme from system (only slot 0). What's worse, Xfce's default GTK2 Raleigh theme is incompatible with some GTK3 applications.

   Themes should be updated regularly to remain compatible with the GTK3 library installed on system.
9. Zuki-theme - a GTK3-compatible theme

   To [manually configure](https://wiki.xfce.org/howto/install_new_themes) consistent desktop look, choose a theme that covers as many aspects of those five categories as possible, cares about GTK version 2 and 3, and updates frequently to follow GTK3 library.

   Unfortunately, I cannot find any exel Xfce theme.
9. (opt) Missing icons

   *xfce-base/xfce4-meta* depends on *virtual/freedesktop-icon-theme*. The lastest *virtual/freedesktop-icon-theme* ebuild has been changed to prefer *x11-themes/adwaita-icon-theme* (by default) over *x11-themes/gnome-icon-theme*. But the former does not contain icons for Xfce4 Desktop.

   ```bash
   # emerge -avtn x11-themes/gnome-icon-theme
   ```

   Since *papirus-icon-theme* is used, we leave Xfce's default icon themes alone.

# [Guake](https://github.com/Guake/guake)

>Without explicit note, I use *terminal* and *terminal emulator* interchangeably.

1. Palette
   1. Most terminals support palette setting in *Preferences/Appearance*.
   2. If the built-in palette fails to meet your requirement, try separate palette manually like [guake-colors-solarized](https://github.com/coolwanglu/guake-colors-solarized).
   3. Usually, choose *solarized-dark*.
2. TERM

   Applications (Emacs Vim etc.) to run in terminal may depend on variable TERM to correctly apply palette.

   Guake supports 256 colors (ancient terminals have only 16 colors). However due to this bug [support true colors in terminal](https://github.com/Guake/guake/issues/772), Guake fails to set TERM (*xterm*) as *xterm-256color*. This can be verified by *tput colors* (8 foreground colors and 8 background colors) and *M-x: list-colors-display* in Emacs.

   It's terminal emulator's job to set TERM on startup before any shell init scripts are loaded. But before the bug is resolved, we must resort to shell.

   ```bash
   # ~/.bashrc
   if [[ -e /usr/share/terminfo/x/xterm-256color ]] ; then
       case $TERM in (rxvt-unicode|screen|tmux|xterm) TERM=$TERM-256color;; esac
   fi
   ```

   Possible TERM values can be found unser */usr/share/terminfo*.
3. [dircolors-solarized](https://github.com/seebi/dircolors-solarized)

   After changing to *solarized-dark* palette, *ls* output displays ugly. To fix that, apply Solarized color setup to *ls* output by *dircolors* - solarized palette for *ls* command.

   ```bash
   ~ $ cd ~/opt
   ~ $ git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/seebi/dircolors-solarized
   ~ $ ln -sv ~/opt/dircolors-solarized/dircolors.ansi-dark ~/.dircolors
   ~ $ echo 'eval `dircolors ~/.dircolors`' >> ~/.bashrc
   # Uncheck *Allow bold font* in Preferences
   ```

   There are four available color theme, namely *dircolors.{256dark,ansi-universal,ansi-dark,ansi-light}*.

   1. If the terminal does not support Solarized palette (rarely), choose *dircolors.256color* which simulates Solarized by terminal's built-in 256 colors, resulting in an *approximate* Solarized theme. It must be a 256-color terminal and TERM is correctly set.
   2. *dircolors.ansi-universal* is smart enough to work both for 16 colors and 256 colors.
   3. If you are sure about the terminal colors, choose *dircolors.ansi-{dark,light}*. They are optimized version.
 4. Summary
    1. Guake has 256 colors;
    2. Wrong TERM value due to bug (updated in *~/.bashrc*);
    3. Support Solarized palette in Preferences;
    4. Choose *dircolors.ansi-{dark,light}*.

# Emacs

1. [emacs-color-theme-solarized](https://github.com/sellout/emacs-color-theme-solarized)

   ```
   ~ $ cd ~/.emacs.d/site-lisp
   ~ $ git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/sellout/emacs-color-theme-solarized
   ```
2. Loading

   ```lisp
   (add-to-list 'custom-theme-load-path (expand-file-name "site-lisp/emacs-color-theme-solarized" user-emacs-directory))
   ;; By default it's 16, but requires terminal emulator palette set to `solarized' and
   ;; make sure `TERM={xterm,screen,rxvt-unicode}-256color'. Otherwsie set to
   ;; 256 and got degraded but approximate `solarized' theme
   ;(setq solarized-termcolors 256)
   (load-theme 'solarized t nil)
   ;; `solarized-light' in GUI mode; `solarized-dark' in terminal
   (add-hook 'after-make-frame-functions
	     (lambda (frame)
	       (let ((mode (if (display-graphic-p frame) 'light 'dark)))
		 (set-frame-parameter frame 'background-mode mode)
		 (set-terminal-parameter frame 'background-mode mode))
	       (enable-theme 'solarized)))
   ```

3. In order to make Emacs Solarized theme loads correctly in terminal, setting your terminal emulator's color scheme to use the Solarized palette.
