---
layout: post
title: HTTPd
---

# Lightweight HTTPd

1. Python

   ```bash
   $ cd ~/workspace/webui-aria2
   $ python3 -m http.server 6801 &
   or
   $ python2 -m SimpleHTTPServer 6801 &
   ```

   Really primitive. Use it if you are lazy :).
2. [darkhttpd](http://unix4lyfe.org/darkhttpd);

   It's pretty handy for temporary serving a *static* web page with multiple extended feature than Python's.

   ```bash
   ~ # darkhttpd /var/public_html --chroot --daemon --no-listing --uid nobody --gid nobody --maxconn 1 --log /var/public_html/traces.log
   ~ $ darkhttpd ~/opt/public_html --daemon --no-listing --maxconn 1 --log ~/opt/public_html/traces.log
   ```

   1. Default port under *root* is 80 while 8080 for normal accounts.

      As a normal user account, we can take vantage of *iptable*'s REDIRECT module of *nat* table.

      If *darkhttpd* is running on *remote* host (i.e. real deployment), use PREROUTING chain:

      ```bash
      # iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 8080
      ```

      Loopback devices (like localhost) do not use the PREROUTING chain. If *darkhttpd* is running on *localhost* (i.e. for test), use OUTPUT chain:

      ```bash
      # iptables -t nat -I OUTPUT -d 127.0.0.1 -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080
      ```

      Hence, there is no need to specify 8080 port in web URL.
   2. Only *root* can and must *chroot* and *drop privileges*.
3. lighttpd;
   1. Suffer from *memory leak*?
   2. Support CGI/FastCGI.
4. nginx;
   1. Good at *static* web page.
   2. Popular than *lighttpd*?
   
# CNAME vs URL Forward

1. A CNAME record is carried out on DNS layer, irrelevant to application layer (SSH, HTTP, FTP etc.).

   The CNAME translation process is *transparent* to browse client, without user end involvement.
2. URL Forward is usually done on web server.

   The server examines the *host* field of HTTP header, and *return back the target URL* to browser client if that matches a Redirect/Forward rule.
3. URL Forward is divided into two categories:
   1. By terminology, Forward and Redirect are used interchangeably, depending on the context. But usually, Forward is a broader concept, meaning Redirect or Frame.
   2. URL Redirect (i.e. 301, 303 and 307) is what we usually refer to. The browser gets a HTTP 3XX status code and *moves permanently* to the new site. Broswer address bar is updated to the target URL.
   3. URL Frame (Cloaking/Masking) is similar but keep the original fetched web page. The new HTTP response will be *embedded* as a *frame* so that the visitor will always see the original URL in the address bar.
4. Platforms like Cloudclare, Freenom etc. support URL Forward nowadays.

# Refs

1. [Big list of http static server one-liners](https://gist.github.com/willurd/5720255)
2. [alpinelinux wiki](https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Darkhttpd)
