---
layout: post
title: V2
---

1. toc
{:toc}

# Arch #

The flowing table illustrates the network layers of a typical [V2](https://www.v2fly.org) deployment.

```
Firefox                                youtube.com
|                                      |
Socks V2 in                            Freedom V2 out
|                                      |
VMess V2 out                           VMess V2 in
|                                      |
Websocket V2 L6                        Websocket V2 L6
|                                      |
TLS V2 L5                              TCP V2 L5
|                                      |
HTTP =========== Cloudflare ========== HTTP Nginx proxy_pass
|                                      |
TLS                                    TLS
|                                      |
TCP                                    TCP
.                                      .
.                                      .
.                                      .
> .................................... <
```


1. Encryption between Nginx and backend V2 can be abandoned (TCP V2 L5) as the traffic only circulates on local host.
2. Cloudflare now provides free websocket caching service. Therefore, we can turn on Cloudflare CDN to protect our V2 server. However, we cannot camouflage the Host header when Cloudflare CDN is turned on.

# Installation #

Download and extract [binary release](https://github.com/v2fly/v2ray-core/releases).

```bash
~ # unzip /path/to/v2ray.zip -d /opt/v2ray/
~ # mkdir -p /opt/v2ray/log
```

As we will run the service as account *nobody*, so make sure the directory and files onwership is correct.

```bash
~ # chown -R nobody: /opt/v2ray/
```

# Server Configuration #

V2 supports multiple configuration formats like Json, YAML, etc. By default, Json format is used. Specially, V2 Json allows comments (`//foo` or `/* bar */`).

## Proxy by Nginx Location ##

```
location /V2 {
    proxy_redirect off;
    proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:10086;
    proxy_http_version 1.1;
    proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
    proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
    proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
}
```

A side effect when browsing '/V2', brwoser reports "400 Bad Request" as the backend V2 is a websocket server instead of a bare HTTP server. We may also receive "502 Bad Gateway" as the backend V2 is not started yet. We resolve the issue by `proxy_intercept_errors` as follows.

```
proxy_intercept_errors on;
error_page 400 502 = /;
```

The `error_page` directive does *internal redirect*. This method is always preferred. A more detailed method would be as below.

```
proxy_intercept_errors on;

error_page 400 404 /404.html;
location = /404.html {
    internal;
}

error_page 500 502 503 504 /50x.html;
location = /50x.html {
    internal;
}
```

The *internal* directives specifies that a given location can only be used for internal redirects.

## Proxy by HTTP Header ##

Unlike section [Proxy by Nginx Location](#nginx-template), we can `proxy_pass` based on customized HTTP headers under the '/' location, using the *if* directive. This method requires V2 client to be 2.40.2 onwards.

```
ssl_certificate      /etc/letsencrypt/live/www.example.com/fullchain.pem;
ssl_certificate_key  /etc/letsencrypt/live/www.example.com/privkey.pem;

location / {
    root /var/www;
  
    proxy_redirect off;
    proxy_http_version 1.1;
    proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
    proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
    proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
  
    if ( $http_host = "shit" ) {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:10086;
}
```

The template above uses 'Host' header to redirect requests to backend V2. The customized Host header **must not** be the website domain. Otherwise, all normal HTTP traffic would go to V2. Usually, we set it to a public domain like *www.amazon.com*. As you will, it can be any arbitrary strings, like *shit*.

Modify [client configuration](#client-configuration) accordingly.

```
"wsSettings": {
  "path": "/",
  "headers": {
    "Host": "shit"
  }
}
```

Manually manipulate the 'Host' header is not recommended as it is crucial for vhost matching. If V2 supports self-defined header, then it is far more desirable. By the way, it rerquires the [evil if directive](https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/start/topics/depth/ifisevil/). Actually, we can also redirect based on the 'Upgrade' header:

```
if ( $http_upgrade = "websocket" ) {
    proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:10086;
}
```

This method still uses the evil *if* directive.

## SELinux and Firewall ##

On servers with [SELinux on](/2022/05/15/selinux/), V2ray may report [websocket: bad handshake](https://github.com/v2ray/v2ray-core/issues/2451). By default, SELinux [does not permit Nginx operations](https://www.nginx.com/blog/using-nginx-plus-with-selinux/), such as proxying to upstream locations or [communicating with other processes through sockets](https://stackoverflow.com/q/27435655).

Check [SELinux audit log](/2022/05/15/selinux#audit-logs).

```bash
~ # grep 'denied.*nginx' /var/log/audit/audit.log
```

Turn SELinux bool value.

```bash
~ # getsebool -a | grep httpd_can_network_connect

~ # setsebool -P httpd_can_network_connect 1
```

Turn on V2 port if it is not [ephemeral ports](/2022/05/15/selinux#ports).

```bash
~ # semanage port -l | grep [h]ttp_port_t

~ # semanage port -a -t http_port_t -p tcp 10086
```

Finally, make sure the [cloud instance](/2021/07/18/aws/) allows at least 443 traffic.

## Verify Configuration ##

```bash
~ # /opt/v2ray/v2ray test -c /opt/v2ray/config.json

~ # sudo -u nobody -g nobody -- /opt/v2ray/v2ray -config /opt/v2ray/config.json

~ # ss -nplt

~ # tail -F /opt/v2ray/log/{access,error}.log
~ # tail -F /var/log/nginx/{access,error}.log
```

## Systemd ##

From now on, V2 provides built-in [Systemd](/2021/07/19/systemd/) unit file. V2 will run as *nobody* instead of *root*.

```bash
~ # systemctl daemon-reload

~ # systemctl enable /opt/v2ray/systemd/v2ray.service
~ # systemctl start v2ray.service

# -or-
~ # systemctl enable /opt/v2ray/systemd/v2ray@.service
~ # systemctl enable v2ray@4.27.4
~ # systemctl start v2ray@4.27.4
```

# Client Configuration #

As TLS encryption is adopted, extra Vmess encryption is unnecessary unless Cloudflare CDN is adopted. Details refer to [Cloudflare CDN](#cloudflare-cdn) section.

## sniffing ##

This option is used by *inbound* or *inbounddetour* to retrieve domains upon receiving IP packets. Usually, users connect to a domain instead of an IP. Most of the time V2 *inbound* or *inbounddetour* receives the domain (as DNS query first) such that relevant traffic is directed in accord with *domain* rules of the *routing* section.

However, it happens that a client may connect to an IP directly (i.e. Telegram). What is worse, IP packets can bypass *domain* rules.

Additionally, if a user forgets to select:

>Proxy DNS when using SOCKS v5

in Firefox setting, DNS queries would be sent to local DNS service and then IP packets go to V2. Obviously, local DNS replies are usually poisoned.

Therefore, *sniffing* comes to help such that it siniffs domains from IP packets, reset the connection, and route against *domain* rules. DNS poision issue is resolved as well.

From the discussion, we find *routing* based on IP packet sniffing is more reliable and robust. In the meantime, *dokodemo* transparent proxy redirects IP packets based on Iptables.

## DNS ##

V2 has built-in DNS support, mainly for two purposes:

1. Support the *routing* rules based on *domainStrategy* setting.

   For example, in order to match an IP rule in *routing*, the target domain must be resolved to IP first by the *dns* section. That IP will **only** be used to re-reroute the request, namely deciding which *outbound* to use!
2. DNS service for the *freedom* outbound.

   When a target domain is routed to the *freedom* outbound, it should be *directly* accessed. V2ray will consult the *dns* section to resolve the domain. Once got the host IP to connect to, it should be routed again in the *routing* section. This is a little bit confusing!

Apart from the the built-in DNS support, V2ray has a *dns* outbound that can be used to serve as a open DNS service, similar to Dnsmasq.

1. Disable "Proxy DNS when using SOCKS v5" in Firefox.
2. At V2ray client side:
   1. Set up a *dokodemo-door* inbound at port 53, receiving DNS query.
   2. Set up a *dns* outbound.
   3. Set up a *routing* rule, routes the query from *dokodemo-door* inbound to the *dns* outbound.
   4. The *dns* outound intercept DNS queries and redirect the queries to the *dns* section.

We cal also combine V2ray and Dnsmasq. Queries are first sent to local Dnsmasq, then to V2ray *dokodemo-door*.

## Domain List ##

V2ray has built-in domain list, like *geosite.dat* and *geoip.dat*, which can be used in the *routing* section and the *dns* section to achieve *smart* proxy.

An enhanced version can be found at [v2ray-rules-dat](https://github.com/Loyalsoldier/v2ray-rules-dat).

Besides, V2ray can also load domain list from external files with prefix *ext*, like [h2y.dat](https://github.com/ToutyRater/V2Ray-SiteDAT). Similar to the built-in domain list, reference to external list can be:

```
"ext:h2y.dat:ad"
```

## Cloudflare CDN ##

Turn on CDN to hide server IP from censorship and probably accelerate speed.

Cloudflare supports caching *websocket* traffic for free accounts. To enable Cloudflare CDN on V2, just click the orange symbol on DNS record.

You might wait for a while before the DNS setting comes into effect. Check by `dig your.domain.com` and find the returned IP be that of Cloudflare's CDN servers.

A few notes:

1. Cloudflare's free CDN service actually *degrade* instead of *accelerate* your service.

   This can be caused by ISP dropping IP packets to its servers. What's worse, Cloudflare may do this on purpose for paid service.
2. Once enabled, we **must** reset [Customized HTTP header](#proxy-by-http-header) to the real domain name instead of *shit*.

   Otherwise, V2 client cannot establish TLS session with Cloudflare as CDN servers does not have a *shit* vhost.
3. VMess encryption **must** be enabled besides TLS, thus Cloudflare cannot see VMess payload.

   You'd better not use V2 do confidential communication such as Email, Login etc.

## Vmess and Clock ##

Vmess depends on system clock to do authorization, so make sure the clock delta between client and server fall within 90s.

# Windows #

## Global Proxy ##

To enable global Socks proxy on Windows, the address part in "Windows Settings" should be `http://socks=127.0.0.1`. Alternatively and *recommended*, use the "Internet Options", "Connections", "LAN settings", "Proxy Server", "Advanced" and "Bypass proxy server for local addresses".

Alternatively, use 3rd-party tools like [Clash](https://github.com/Dreamacro/clash) as the client side of V2. Whatever methods you choose, make sure to bypass the remote domain and VPS IP.

However, Windows UWP app like Mail, Calendar etc. have their own sandbox (namely App Container) and [does not respect system proxy](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/29989157), including the "Microsoft Store" itself. The container prevents App from connecting to system's *loopback* interface, such that Wireshark cannot capture UWP traffic and UWP does not use global proxy. Clash supports UWP loopback access and enjoys the proxy. 

It is recommended to use Windows' built-in *CheckNetIsolation.exe*.

```
PS C:\Users\jim> CheckNetIsolation.exe -?
PS C:\Users\jim> CheckNetIsolation.exe LoopbackExempt -?
PS C:\Users\jim> CheckNetIsolation.exe LoopbackExempt -s

PS C:\Users\jim> CheckNetIsolation.exe LoopbackExempt -a -n=<package-family-name>
PS C:\Users\jim> CheckNetIsolation.exe LoopbackExempt -a -p=<sid>
```

How to find out an App's "Package Family Name"?

```
PS C:\Users\jim> Get-AppxPackage > lst  # list full list
PS C:\Users\jim> Get-Content .\lst.md | Select-String -Pattern "wechat"
PS C:\Users\jim> Get-Content .\lst.md | Select-String -Pattern ".*windowscommunicationsapps.*"  # Mail and Calender
```

# macOS #

[V2raya](https://v2raya.org) deployed by [Homebrew](/2020/10/12/macos/#homebrew).

```bash
# install v2ray
~ $ brew install v2ray

# install v2raya
~ $ brew tap v2raya/v2raya
~ $ brew install v2raya/v2raya/v2raya

# install homebrew-services
~ $ brew services list

# start v2raya
~ $ brew services start v2raya
~ $ brew services info v2raya
```

Go to <http://localhost:2017> for setup. For example, update [geoip.dat and geosite.dat](https://github.com/Loyalsoldier/v2ray-rules-dat) at "/opt/homebrew/Cellar/v2ray/4.45.2/share/v2ray". Then, go to "V2raya - Settings - Traffic Splitting Mode of Rule Port - Routing A - Configure", append the following line:

```
domain(geosite:category-ads-all) -> block
```

The resulted V2 config is located at *~/.config/v2raya/config.json*. We can add any routing rules on demand.

Currently, V2raya on macOS does not support transparent proxy. We can set macOS system proxy to use V2raya. Attention please; since [RoutingA (Advanced)](https://v2raya.org/docs/manual/routinga/) is used, the Socks and Http inbound port are 20173 and 20172 respectively.

# Refs

1. [Bai hua wen](https://guide.v2fly.org/)
2. [V2Ray的Websocket模式使用CDN加速并隐藏VPS真实IP](https://www.igfw.net/archives/13463)
