---
layout: post
title: Eng
---

1. A report from Gizmodo says that Google is **partnering with** the United States Department of Defense and building drone software.

   partner with
2. We had to admire his prowess as an oarsman/his rowing **prowess**.

   prowess: Someone's prowess is their great skill at doing something. (FORMAL)
3. A **pilot** scheme or a pilot project is one which is used to test an idea before deciding whether to introduce it on a larger scale.
4. If one group of people **leapfrog**s into a particular position or leapfrogs someone else, they use the achievements of another person or group in order to make advances of their own.
5. A **patio** is an area of flat blocks or concrete next to a house, where people can sit and relax or eat.
6. A **bartender** is a person who serves drinks behind a bar. (AM; in BRIT, use barman, barmaid)
7. ox/beef; pig/pork; lamb/sheep/mutton.

   If you **beef up** something, you increase, strengthen, or improve it.
8. The oldest type of proxy server, HTTP proxies are designed *expressly* for web-based traffic.

   An *express* command or order is one that is clearly and deliberately stated.
9. If you *eavesdrop* on someone, you listen secretly to what they are saying.

   eavesdropper.

   The government illegally eavesdropped on his telephone conversations...
1. A *toll* is a total number of deaths, accidents, or disasters that occur in a particular period of time. (JOURNALISM)

   There are fears that the casualty toll may be higher.
2. There are a variety options to do this, and if you're a *seasoned* sysadmin you probably already have a favourite way.

   You can use *seasoned* to describe a person who has a lot of experience of something. For example, a seasoned traveller is a person who has travelled a lot.
3. A *reciprocal* action or agreement involves two people or groups who do the same thing to each other or agree to help each another in a similar way. (FORMAL)

   They expected a *reciprocal* gesture before more hostages could be freed...
4. Something, especially food, that is *kosher* is approved of or allowed by the laws of Judaism.

5. Someone who *is agile* can move quickly and easily. If you have *an agile mind*, you think quickly and intelligently.
6. In finance, a *portfolio* is the combination of shares or other investments that a particular person or company has.

   A case for carrying papers or drawings or maps; usually leather.
7. It *is more than* a piece of technology and orchestration.
8. The *topography* of a particular area is its physical shape, including its hills, valleys, and rivers.

   The *geography* of a place is the way that features such as rivers, mountains, towns, or streets are arranged within it.

   It is important to remember that *topographically* closer does not inherently mean *geographically* closer, though this is often the case.
9. The *penultimate* thing in a series of things is *the last but one*. (FORMAL)
1. If someone or something *aggravate*s a situation, they make it worse.

   If someone or something *aggravate*s you, they make you annoyed. (INFORMAL)
2. The *mileage* in a particular course of action is its usefulness in getting you what you want.
3. [find \| consider \| see] [it \| him] [to be \| [as] being] [ very \| rather] [appropriate \| amusing \| strange| inappropriate]

   *to be* and *being* means different context.
4. reverse course; impose tariffs on; in response to; rescind sanctions against;
5. If a government or a group of people in power *rescind* a law or agreement, they officially withdraw it and state that it is no longer valid. (FORMAL)
6. *A slew of* things is a large number of them. (mainly AM)
7. If you *wield* a weapon, tool, or piece of equipment, you carry and use it.

   If someone *wield*s power, they have it and are able to use it.
8. If a group of people or things *fan out*, they move forwards away from a particular point in different directions.
9. Some concerns have been raised that ...
1. ledger, tally, bookkeeping/bookkeeper
2. to = (in order) to = (so as) to = so that;
3. If a boyfriend or girlfriend *stands you up*, they fail to keep an arrangement to meet you. (INFORMAL)

   stand sb up; no show no call;
