---
layout: post
title: MTP
---

MTP (Media Transfer Protocol) is a protocol to allow the transfer of files to external devices. It is provided by several programs, most of them depending on FUSE.

From both the iOS and Android posts, we resort to Thunar (with *gvfs* support). In this post, I will show manually how to manage MTP device (Windows phone, Android, and even Creative Zen player) files. Irrespective of methods adopted, almost all packages implementing MTP depend on *libmtp* and/or FUSE.

Android doesn't support mounting your phone as a USB mass storage device anymore (from Android 3.0 onwards). Instead, put device into MTP mode and then access to device through MTP package. Take Android for instance, upon connected to computer, the device would prompts you to choose the mode, usually writing "charging only", "transmit files" and "tansmit photos". Just select the 2nd option.

There are a bunch of MTP packages like *mtpfs*, *go-mtpfs*, *jmtpfs* etc. Specially, *gphotofs* is a FUSE-based file system for interfacing with digital cameras using the *gphoto2* application.

*mtpfs* is almost orphaned. Here I will take *jmtpfs* for example. Please make sure:

1. Relevant Udev rule is created for your device like that in Android post.
2. Also check if user belongs to *plugdev* group.

```bash
root@tux / # emerge -avt jmtpfs
user@tux ~ $ mkdir ~/mnt
user@tux ~ $ jmtpfs -h; jmtpfs -l
user@tux ~ $ jmtpfs ~/mnt
user@tux ~ $ ls ~/mnt
user@tux ~ $ fusermount -u ~/mnt
```

That's all!

To simplify the process by regular *mount*, we create *jmtpfs* entry in */etc/fstab*.

Firstly, make symbolic similar to *mount.fuse*:

```bash
root@tux ~ # ln -sv /usr/bin/jmtpfs /usr/bin/mount.jmtpfs
```

Then, add to */etc/fstab*:

```
# /etc/fstab

jmtpfs /home/user/run/motog fuse noauto,noatime,nodev,user,uid=1000,gid=1000 0 0
```

Of the options, *user* means any other accounts besides *root* can *mount* the entry.

Finally:

```bash
user@tux ~ $ mount ~/run/motog
user@tux ~ $ ls ~/run/motog
```

Interestingly, you will find even *root* cannot access to */home/user/run/motog*, which is FUSE security restriction! What is more, *umount* is not allowed. Check man page of *mount.fuse*. To allow other accounts and/or *root* to read/write device files and *umount*, we should turn on 'user_allow_other' option in FUSE configuration */etc/fuse.conf*:

```
# /etc/fuse.conf

# Allow non-root users to specify the 'allow_other' or 'allow_root'
# mount options.
#
user_allow_other
```

Append 'allow_other' or 'allow_root' to mounting options. Before this takes effect, remember to reboot system:

```
# /etc/fstab

jmtpfs /home/user/run/motog fuse noauto,noatime,nodev,user,allow_root,uid=1000,gid=1000 0 0
```

Up to now, I have demonstrated mounting MTP devices and file permissions thereof. To detach the device, most *libmtp* based packages resort to *fusermount*:

```bash
user@tux ~ $ fusermount -u ~/run/motog
```

If 'allow_other' or 'allow_root' is enabled, then use *umount*:

```bash
user@tux ~ $ umount ~/run/motog
```
