---
layout: post
title: Bitcoin
---

1. toc
{:toc}

This post only focuses only on Bitcoin daemon deployment on Linux. To get Bitcoin outline, concepts, principles, read NextCloud Note.

# Bitcoin Core Installation

I choose to install daemon instead of QT GUI.

```bash
root@tux ~ / emerge -avt net-p2p/bitcoind net-p2p/bitcoin-cli
root@tux ~ / less /etc/{bitcoin/bitcoin.conf,init.d/bitcoind,conf.d/bitcoind}
```

# Mode

1. Full node (mainnet)

   A full node is a program that fully validates transactions and blocks. Running in full node comes with certain costs (i.e. harward requirements). To store the full blockchain, you need around 145 gigabytes of disk space, 2 gigabytes of RAM, broadband Internet etc.

   Mostly, you should keep your computer running at least 6 hours continuously without interruption.
2. Prune mode (mainnet)

   Prune mode save diskpace by parameter `--prune=<n>` which prunes (delete) old blocks. By default, 0 disables pruning blocks; 1 allows manual pruning via RPC; >550 = automatically prune block files to stay under the specified target size in MiB.
3. [Testnet](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Testnet)

   Unlike mainnet, the testnet is an alternative blockchain, only to be used to testing. Coins in testnet are separate and distinct from actual bitcoins, and are never supposed to have any value.

   This allows application developers or bitcoin testers to experiment, without having to use real bitcoins or worrying about breaking the main bitcoin chain. What is more, a raw recruit can play around with testnet and switch to real Bitcoin blockchain afterwards.

   The size of testnet blockchain is not trivial. As of January 2018, it is was 14GB, containing data for about 6 years worth of testnet activity.

   >We can combine Testnet and Prune together.

4. [Regression Test Mode (Regtest)](https://bitcoin.org/en/developer-examples#regtest-mode)

   To further simplify the testing process, we can use *local* Regtest mode, where interaction with random peers and blocks is unnecessary or unwanted. It lets you instantly create a brand-new *private* block chain with the same basic rules as testnet — but one major difference: you choose when to create new blocks, so you have complete control over the environment. Unlike previous modes, block generation is pretty fast!

# [Configuration](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/contrib/debian/examples/bitcoin.conf)

Default ports as of 0.16.0:

|| mainnet | testnet | regtest |
|---|---|---|---|
|P2p|8333|18333|18444|
|RPC|8332|18332|18443|

Here is a configration for Regtest mode:

```
# /etc/bitcoin/bitcoin.conf

#
# Mode
#

regtest=1
#testnet=1

#
# Network
#

#proxy=127.0.0.1:1080

#listen=1

#https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/tor.md
#onion=127.0.0.1:9050
listenonion=0

bind=127.0.0.1
bind=192.168.56.100
#port=18444

addnode=192.168.56.101
#addnode=192.168.56.101:18444

#connect=192.168.56.101
#connect=192.168.56.101:18444

#
# RPC
#

server=1

#https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/tree/master/share/rpcauth
rpcauth=myuser:ff164b6f16a012debdadc24e7f7da$eb5427acefdcf06e0cf4f070568297e93a29bd0e16f28bac6a6c9dce5a0d08fa
#rpcuser=myuser
#rpcpassword=AbfGbK7qUbpLh3lLtgMKD3xKFUupXgC3BSsf98X2jrI=

rpcallowip=127.0.0.1
rpcallowip=::1
rpcallowip=192.168.0.0/24
rpcbind=127.0.0.1
#rpcport=18443

#
# Miscellanous
#

#prune=550
txindex=1
```

1. *prune* and *txindex* are incompatible. Turn on *prune* in *mainnet* to save disk space.
2. *rpcauth* is recommended over *rpcuser/rpcpassword*. It generates random password if we do not offer one.

   ```bash
   user@tux ~ # /path/to/rpcauth.py <username> [<password>]
   ```

   *rpcauth* is only used by server side. Please write down generated *rpcpassword* pair as it will be used by client side.
3. [Difference](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/10766) between *addnode* and *connect*.

   *addnode* adds a node to the list of nodes to connect while *connect* only connects to this very node, ignoring other nodes.
4. *connect=* and *proxy=* will disable *listen=1*, rejecting incoming connections.
5. We can connect the Bitcoin network through Tor. A bit further, we set local *.onion* address so that our own Bitcoin node is reachable through Tor.

# Daemon/server

```bash
root@tux ~ / rc-service bitcoind start
root@tux ~ / ss -npelt
root@tux ~ / ll /var/lib/bitcoin/.bitcoin/
root@tux ~ / gpasswd -a username bitcoin
```

1. Bitcoin is running in daemon mode in the background.
2. We should add username to bitcoin group, otherwise *bitcoin_cli* cannot run with username account.
3. From */etc/init.d/bitcoind* we find critical parameters are `-conf` and `-datadir`.

   Usually, we put `-conf` under `-datadir`.
4. Bitcoin-qt disables `-server` by default and we can access to RPC through *Help -> Debug window -> Console*.

# [RPC](https://bitcoin.org/en/developer-reference#remote-procedure-calls-rpcs)

Unlike the server side, client side [bitcoin_cli](https://bitcoin.org/en/developer-reference#rpc-quick-reference) does not recognize *rpcauth*. To authenticate itself, *bitcoin_cli* read *rpcpassword* from configuration file or command line option.

```bash
# enable bitcoin group without re-login.
user@tux ~ # newgrp - bitcoin
```

We could tell it to share configuration with server:

```bash
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli -conf=/etc/bitcoin/bitcoin.conf [-rpcuser=user -rpcpassword=password] help
# generate bitcoin.conf symlink
user@tux ~ # mkdir -p ~/.bitcoin; ln -sv /etc/bitcoin/bitcoin.conf ~/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli [-rpcuser=user -rpcpassword=password] help
```

Alternatively, we set separate client configration file without symlink. You are recommended to use this method:

```
# ~/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf

regtest=1
rpcuser=myuser
rpcpassword=mypassword
#rpcport=18443
```

For client options, check man page.

# [Testing](https://bitcoin.org/en/developer-documentation)

In this section, I will discuss more Bitcoin details with Regtest mode.

## Info

```bash
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli help
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli help getblockchaininfo
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli getblockchaininfo | getwalletinfo | getnetworkinfo | getpeerinfo
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli logging "[\"all\"]"
```

## Block

```bash
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli getblockhash 50
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli getblock <returned hash> [0 | 1 | 2]
```

To examine a block information, we should first get its hash value. To get the block hash, we use *height* vlue which means distance from the *genesis* block.

## Mining

>Mining is just generating in Regtest mode.

```bash
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli generate 101
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli getbalance
```

A Regtest blockchain with 101 blocks is created, which takes less than a second. Each confirmed block reward is 50 bitcoins (no transaction fees). However, a block must have 100 confirmations before that reward can be spent, so we generate 101 blocks to get access to the coinbase transaction from block 1.

```bash
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli generate 1
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli getbalance
```

## [Peer](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/36014)

Thgough we use Regest locally, connecting to peer is necessary when you want to test transactions. To do this, we just file run another Regtest instance locally with different *port*, *conf* and *datadir*.

If you'd like, the extra Regtest instance could be moved into virtual machine as long as Hostonly network is correctly configured. Please be noted that, launch virtual machine before host Regtest instance which otherwise does not know about Hostonly interface IP.

In order that two nodes notice each other, we should use parameter *addnode/connect* or command line option thereof.

```bash
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli getaddednodeinfo | getpeerinfo
```

## Transaction

Once we have established connection to peers, we can send bitcoins around. Fristly, we should generate a new address to receive payments.

```bash
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli getnewaddress
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli listreceivedbyaddress 1 true
```

Send 10 bitcoins to the address using *sendtoaddress* RPC command which automatically selects an unspent transaction output (UTXO) from which to spend the satoshis. To check UTXO, we use *listunspent*.

```bash
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli getbalance
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli listunspent
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli sendtoaddress $NEW_ADDRESS 10.00 "first spending" "send to myself" true
```

### Examine transaction

```bash
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli gettransaction <transaction hash returned> true
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli getrawtransaction <transaction hash returned> true
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli decoderawtransaction <hex string returned>
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli listunspent 0
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli listreceivedbyaddress 1 true
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli listtransactions "" 2
```

### Confirm a transaction

Up to now, the transaction is not yet confirmed! We should mine 100 blocks to confirm it.

```bash
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli generate 100
```

>If the input is from coinbase transaction, you can't spent it until it get 100 confirmations, avoiding [blockchain fork](https://bitcoin.org/en/glossary/fork) issue. Hence, 1 confirmation is not enough!

Similary, we can send bitcoins the other Regtest node.

## Stop daemon

We can stop the daemon:

```bash
user@tux ~ # bitcoin-cli stop
```

>However, we'd better use OpenRC or Systemd service.
